feat: add task handler snap docs (#289)
canonical/landscape-documentation: docs/how-to-guides/landscape-installation-and-set-up/configure-task-handler.md

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    description: "Configure the Landscape Task Handler charm for Landscape 26.04.1 LTS and later Juju deployments."
---

(how-to-configure-task-handler)=
# How to configure the Landscape Task Handler charm

The `landscape-task-handler-operator` charm is required for Juju-managed Landscape Server 26.04.1 LTS and later deployments. It installs, manages, and configures the `landscape-task-handler` snap.

The charm automatically manages database credentials, gRPC mTLS certificates, and HAProxy routing. In most deployments, the defaults are sufficient and no additional configuration is needed. Additional configuration is usually only needed when one or more of these are true:

- You need to tune worker behavior (concurrency, batch size, retry limits).
- You need to tune cleanup retention or scheduling.
- You need to change the snap channel or the external gRPC port.
- You need human-readable logs or a non-default log level.

If none of these apply, stop here.

> For all available config options, actions, and their snap-key equivalents, see the [Charmhub documentation for landscape-task-handler](https://charmhub.io/landscape-task-handler).

Reviewer: The link is correct as is

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    description: "Configure the Landscape Task Handler snap for Landscape 26.04.1 LTS and later manual deployments."
---

(how-to-configure-task-handler)=
# How to configure Task Handler

> Task handler is required for Landscape 26.04.1 LTS and later. It performs hard deletion tasks (for example, permanently deleting a computer) as a saga that spans the main, account, and resource databases, tracking each task through its stages so that a transient failure can be retried instead of leaving the deletion partially applied.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Task handler is required for Landscape 26.04.1 LTS and later. It performs hard deletion tasks (for example, permanently deleting a computer) across the main, account, and resource databases. It records each operation’s progress so that temporary failures can be retried without leaving the deletion incomplete.
```
Just a suggestion. Yours is harder to read (IMO 👑)

```bash
sudo snap set landscape-task-handler \
  landscape.database.task-handler.host=<DB-HOST> \
  landscape.database.task-handler.port=<DB-PORT> \
  landscape.database.task-handler.user=landscape \
  landscape.database.task-handler.password=<DB-PASSWORD> \
  landscape.database.task-handler.name=landscape-standalone-task-handler \
  landscape.database.task-handler.ssl=disable
```

```{seealso}
See [Configuring SSL/TLS for PostgreSQL connections](#task-handler-ssl-tls) if you need to enable SSL/TLS instead of `ssl=disable`.
```

## Apply additional configuration

The rest of the task handler's settings are optional and only need to be set if your deployment requires something other than the defaults. Values set through snap configuration override the equivalent value from `service.conf`.

For example, to configure the task handler to use a different SSL mode for the shared databases than what Landscape Server uses:

```bash
sudo snap set landscape-task-handler landscape.database.main.ssl=verify-full
```

Or to tune worker concurrency:

```bash
sudo snap set landscape-task-handler landscape.task-handler.worker.max-retries=5

> ```

Reviewer: This looks a mismatch between the description and the code snippet
